[Future Impl] Wiki Reorg: Sharding and Asynchronous Backing (#4871)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-async-backing.md

---

> id: learn-async

Reviewer: ```suggestion
id: learn-async-backing
```

title: Asynchronous Backing
sidebar_label: Asynchronous Backing
description: A brief overview of asynchronous backing, and how it affects Polkadot's scalability.
keywords: [parachains, slots, backing, parablock]

> slug: ../learn-async

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: ../learn-async-backing
```

[pipelining](https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/definition/pipelining) to the parachain block
generation and validation process. It is analogous to the logical pipelining of processor
instruction in "traditional" architectures, where some instructions may be executed before others
are complete. Instructions may also be executed in parallel, enabling multiple parts of the
processor to be working on potentially different instructions at the same time.

Bundles of state transitions represented as blocks may be processed similarly. In the context of
Polkadot, it aims to increase the throughput of the entire network.

:::info

In order to realize which exact processes this upgrade improves, it is recommended to be familiar
with the stages of parablock validation, which you may [read here](./learn-parachains-protocol.md).

:::

Asynchronous backing enables logical pipelining over the parablock 
[**generation**](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains-protocol#collators),
[**backing**](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains-protocol#parachain-phase), and
[**inclusion**](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains-protocol#inclusion-pipeline)

> processes. A parablock may be at different stages, but multiple blocks should be able to process them

Reviewer: what you mean with "them"? Who is them?

---
id: learn-async
title: Asynchronous Backing
sidebar_label: Asynchronous Backing
description: A brief overview of asynchronous backing, and how it affects Polkadot's scalability.
keywords: [parachains, slots, backing, parablock]
slug: ../learn-async
---

Asynchronous backing is a feature that introduces
[pipelining](https://www.techtarget.com/whatis/definition/pipelining) to the parachain block
generation and validation process. It is analogous to the logical pipelining of processor
instruction in "traditional" architectures, where some instructions may be executed before others
are complete. Instructions may also be executed in parallel, enabling multiple parts of the
processor to be working on potentially different instructions at the same time.

Bundles of state transitions represented as blocks may be processed similarly. In the context of

> Polkadot, it aims to overall increase the throughput of the entire network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Polkadot, it aims to increase the throughput of the entire network.
```

:::info

In order to realize which exact processes this upgrade improves, it is recommended to be familiar

> with the stages of a parablock, which you may [read here](./learn-parachains-protocol.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
with the stages of parablock validation, which you may [read here](./learn-parachains-protocol.md).
```

:::

> Asynchronous backing adds this logical pipeline to the parablock

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Asynchronous backing enables logical pipelining over the parablock 
```

[**generation**](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains-protocol#collators),
[**backing**](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains-protocol#parachain-phase), and
[**inclusion**](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-parachains-protocol#inclusion-pipeline)

> processes. A parablock may be at different stages, but multiple blocks should be able to process

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
processes. A parablock may be at different stages, but multiple blocks should be able to process them
```

> simultaneously (in parallel) if needed. Most notably, block candidate generation and backing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
simultaneously (in parallel) if needed. Most notably, parablock N + 1 can be generated and backed during the same time in which its predecessor, parablock N, is undergoing inclusion on the relay chain.
```

> simultaneously (in parallel) if needed. Most notably, parablock N + 1 can be generated and backed during the same time in which its predecessor, parablock N, is undergoing inclusion on the relay chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
simultaneously (in parallel) if needed. Most notably, parablock N + 1 can be generated and backed while its predecessor, parablock N, is undergoing inclusion on the relay chain.
```

> processes can occur while their ancestors are included on the relay chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Processes can occur while their ancestors are included on the relay chain.
```

This pipeline will allow [collators](./learn-parachains-protocol.md#collators) to include an
estimated ~3-5x more transactions/data while speeding up parachain block times from 12 to 6 seconds.

> In short, asynchronous backing will enable for an estimated ~6-10x more blockspace to be to provided

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In short, Polkadot with asynchronous backing will deliver an estimated ~6-10x more blockspace to its parachains.
```

to Polkadot parachains.

> It has three overarching goals:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Asynchronous Backing has three overarching goals:
```

> 1. Decrease parachain blocks (parablock) validation time to **6 seconds** from **12 seconds**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Decrease parachain block (parablock) validation time to **6 seconds** from **12 seconds**
```

> to Polkadot parachains.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

2. Increase the amount of usable blockspace as per above, meaning more state changes are allowed per
   relay chain block.

> 3. Allow for parablocks to be re-proposed to the network if they are not included initially on the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Allow for parablocks to be re-proposed to the network if they are not included successfully on the
```

> 2. Increase the amount of usable blockspace as per above, meaning more state changes are allowed per
>    relay chain block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Increase the amount of usable blockspace, allowing more state changes per
   relay chain block.
```

   first attempt.

> Asynchronous backing provides a form of **contextual execution**, which allows for more time for
> parachain collators to fit more transactions and ready block candidates for backing and inclusion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Asynchronous backing provides a form of **contextual execution**, which allows for more time for
parachain collators to fit more transactions and prepare block candidates for backing and inclusion.
```

> **Contextual execution** refers to how a parablock can begin being built earlier using the context
> provided by an _unincluded segment_ of recent block ancestors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Contextual execution** refers to how a parablock can be built earlier using the context
provided by an _unincluded segment_ of recent block ancestors.
```

**Unincluded segments** are chains of candidate blocks that are not yet included in the relay chain.
Parablocks can be added to this unincluded segment and no longer have to wait for the latest
included parent block of the relay chain. The core functionality that asynchronous backing brings is

> the ability to build on these unincluded segments of block ancestors rather than the finalized relay

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the ability to build on these unincluded segments of block ancestors rather than ancestors included in the relay
```

> **Unincluded segments** are chains of candidate blocks that are not yet included in the relay chain.
> Parablocks can be added to this unincluded segment and no longer have to wait for the latest
> included parent block of the relay chain. The core functionality that asynchronous backing brings is
> the ability to build on these unincluded segments of block ancestors rather than ancestors included in the relay
> chain state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Unincluded segments** are chains of candidate blocks that are not yet included in the relay chain.
Parablocks can be added to this unincluded segment without waiting for the latest
included parent block of the relay chain. The core functionality that asynchronous backing brings is
the ability to build on these unincluded segments of block ancestors rather than ancestors included in the relay
chain state.
```

Currently, parablocks rely on the most recent relay chain block (often referred to as the **parent**
block, as the parablock anchors itself to it). Each parablock must be generated and go through the

> entire backing process in a single relay block. It then proceeds through availability + inclusion
> process during the next block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
entire backing process in a single relay block. It then proceeds to the availability + inclusion
process during the next block.
```

:::info

> It is important to note two following clarifications:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is important to note the following clarifications:
```

> 1. The parablock is not placed on the relay chain in its entirety, but rather the **paraheader**
> 2. The relay chain does not validate the entire state of a parachain, but only the state transitions
>    within that block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The parablock is not placed on the relay chain in its entirety, but rather the **paraheader**
2. The relay chain does not access the entire state of a parachain but only the values that changed during that block and the merkelized hashes of the unchanged values.
```

:::

For more information on the validity and availability process, be sure to visit the
[parachain protocol](../learn/learn-parachains-protocol.md) page.

## Synchronous Backing on Polkadot

> With synchronous backing, there was only about a single relay chain block, or 6-second window, to
> complete the parablock candidate generation and backing process. This was tightly coupled to the
> relay chain's progress, where blocks had to be created within this window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With synchronous backing, there was only about a single relay chain block (6-second window), to
complete the parablock candidate generation and backing process. This was tightly coupled to the
relay chain's progress, where blocks had to be created within this window.
```

The main limitation of synchronous backing is that parablock validation is tightly coupled to the
relay chain's progression on a 1-1 basis, meaning every parablock must be generated and backed
within six seconds. This time limit reduces the amount of data a collator has time to add to each
block.

A particular parablock, `P1`, would **only** be valid for backing at relay chain parent `R1 + 1` and
subsequently, be included at `R1 + 2` should it be backed successfully. Essentially, a parablock is

> rushing to be backed and included within this two-block window due to the inherent synchrony between
> the parachain and relay chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rushing to be backed and included within this two-block window due to the inherent requirement for synchrony between
the parachain and relay chain.
```

---
id: learn-async
title: Asynchronous Backing
sidebar_label: Asynchronous Backing
description: A brief overview of asynchronous backing, and how it affects Polkadot's scalability.
keywords: [parachains, slots, backing, parablock]
slug: ../learn-async
---

Asynchronous backing is a mechanism that introduces a _pipeline_ for parachain **<->** relay chain

> communication. This pipeline will allow collators to include more data in parachain blocks while
> reducing latency (from 12 to 6 seconds for parablock validation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
communication. This pipeline will allow collators to include more transactions/data in parachain blocks while
reducing parablock validation times from around 12 to 6 seconds. In short, Asynchronous backing will speed up the parachain performance multifold.
```

It has three overarching goals:

1. Decrease parachain blocks (parablock) validation time to **6 seconds** from **12 seconds**
2. Increase the amount of usable blockspace by a factor of 5-10, meaning more state changes are
   allowed per relay chain block.

> 3. Allow for parablocks to be re-proposed to the network if they should be included initially on the

Reviewer 2: May be I am not understanding this correctly. Why should parablocks be re-proposed if they should have been included in the first attempt?

```suggestion
3. Allow for parablocks to be re-proposed to the network if they are not included initially on the
```

Author: My understanding is that (has to be confirmed), but rather than force a block to be included within the 6 sec window, this would allow for them to be re-proposed. I still need to learn exactly what could cause this.

   first attempt.

Asynchronous backing works by providing a form of **contextual execution**, which allows for more
time for parachain collators to fit more transactions and ready block candidates for backing and
inclusion. Because asynchronous relies on the current context of a relay chain block, **contextual
execution** refers to how a parablock can begin being built earlier through the context of future
relay chain block(s).

## Synchronous Backing on Polkadot

> With synchronous backing, there was only about a single block, or 6-second window, to complete the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With synchronous backing, there was only about a single relaychain block, or 6-second window, to complete the
```

parablock inclusion process. This was tightly coupled to the relay chain's progress, where blocks

> had to be completed within this window:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
had to be created within this window:
```

(**Parachain 1**) proposing two parablocks (**P1** and **P2**). Each parablock's lifecycle, from
being candidate (**P(C)**) to being backed and included (**P(B)** and **P(I)**, respectively), must
fit within the relay-chain block lifetime.

Thus, the main limitation of synchronous backing is that parablock validation is tightly coupled to
the relay chain's progression on a 1-1 basis, meaning every parablock must be built, backed, and
included within six seconds. Parablocks depend on being in sync with the relay chain, reducing the
amount of data in the block.

Essentially, a parablock is rushing to being validated by the relay-chain due to this synchrony.

By making this process of backing parablocks more asynchronous, parachains get the chance to not
only include more data within each parablock, but also retry to include parablocks that failed
inclusion.

## Asynchronous Backing on Polkadot

With asynchronous backing, the window is more than the span of around two blocks, or a ~12-second
window. This enables more computational and storage time per block, as the context of the next relay
chain block can kickstart the process of the next parablock.

> Notice that blocks can be prepared longer, meaning more transactions per block. Due to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that blocks can be bigger compared to what we have in synchronous backing, meaning more transactions per block. Due to the
```

asynchrony, these blocks can be prepared in anticipation of being included later rather than keeping
in sync with the relay chain's progress 1-1:

```mermaid
%%{init: { 'logLevel': 'debug', 'theme': 'neutral', 'themeVariables': { 'fontSize': '14px', 'commitLabelFontSize': '16px', 'tagLabelFontSize': '16px' }, 'gitGraph': {'showBranches': true, 'showCommitLabel':true,'mainBranchName': 'Relay Chain'}} }%%
gitGraph
commit id:"R1"
branch "Parachain 1, Block 1" order: 2
commit id:"P1(C)"
commit id:"P1(B)"
branch "Parachain 1, Block 2" order: 3
checkout "Relay Chain"
merge "Parachain 1, Block 1" tag:"P1 Backed" type:HIGHLIGHT
commit id:"R2"
checkout "Parachain 1, Block 2"
commit id:"P2(C)"
commit id:"P2(B)"
checkout "Relay Chain"
merge "Parachain 1, Block 2" tag:"P2 Backed" type:HIGHLIGHT
checkout "Parachain 1, Block 1"
commit id:"P1(I)"
checkout "Relay Chain"
merge "Parachain 1, Block 1" tag:"P1 Included" id:"R3"
commit id:"R4"
checkout "Parachain 1, Block 2"
commit id:"P2(I)"
checkout "Relay Chain"
merge "Parachain 1, Block 2" tag:"P2 Included" id:"R5"
```

:::info How does this compare to Ethereum's Danksharding?

> Asynchronous backing is the Polkadot equivalent to Ethereum's Danksharding. Where Ethereum merely

Reviewer 2: Was this backed by Rob or the authors of Async backing anywhere or is it our interpretation?

```suggestion
Asynchronous backing is the Polkadot (sort of) equivalent to Ethereum's Danksharding. Where Ethereum merely
```

Author: It was my interpretation, but I think it should probably be taken out by now.  Maybe later we can include it in a comparison where it really belongs

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me! Thanks

---
id: learn-async
title: Asynchronous Backing
sidebar_label: Asynchronous Backing
description: A brief overview of asynchronous backing, and how it affects Polkadot's scalability.
keywords: [parachains, slots, backing, parablock]
slug: ../learn-async
---

> Asynchronous backing is a mechanism that introduces an enhancement to the block validation pipeline

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Asynchronous backing is a feature which introduces pipelining to parachain block validation.
```

Continue by going over the general definition of pipelining. Gav recommended that we describe it this way. Essentially breaking a longer process into stages and competing different stages for different task instances (or blocks) at the same time.  For context here are the general stages of parachain block validation:

Block candidate generation and submission -> backing -> availability + inclusion -> approvals -> disputes and/or finality

We already have asynchronous approvals/disputes/finality, but the first three steps were synchronous. We could only start producing a new block candidate after its parent was fully included on the relay chain. Now we have pipelining such that candidate generation and backing can produce candidates at the same time their ancestors are being included.

Author: Got it, thank you for this clarification.  To me, this sounds like how a logical pipeline for a processor may work, where instructions are executed in parts, and at the same time.  Is this reasonable to draw a comparison here?

Reviewer 3: That is indeed a reasonable comparison.

> for parachain **<->** relay chain communication. This pipeline will allow collators to include more

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This pipeline will allow collators to include 5-10x more
```

Author: Is there a source for the factor of 5-10x?

Reviewer 3: This is Rob's best "scratch paper" estimate. Though he recently directed me to scale back our claims so as to not set expectations too high. We should use 3-5x rather than 5-10x here.

Sophia is getting blockspace benchmarking working, such that we'll have real before vs after data soon.

> transactions/data in parablocks while reducing parablock validation times from around 12 to 6

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
transactions/data in parablocks while speeding up parachain block times from 12 to 6
```

> seconds. In short, asynchronous backing will speed up the parachain performance multifold.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
seconds. In short, asynchronous backing will 10-20x the blockspace provided to Polkadot parachains.
```

Author: Happy to commit, but any sort of source / backing to this factor?

Reviewer 3: As commented above. Per the redirect from Rob we should use 6-10x here rather than 10-20x.

It has three overarching goals:

1. Decrease parachain blocks (parablock) validation time to **6 seconds** from **12 seconds**
2. Increase the amount of usable blockspace by a factor of 5-10, meaning more state changes are
   allowed per relay chain block.
3. Allow for parablocks to be re-proposed to the network if they are not included initially on the
   first attempt.

Asynchronous backing works by providing a form of **contextual execution**, which allows for more
time for parachain collators to fit more transactions and ready block candidates for backing and

> inclusion. **Contextual execution** refers to how a parablock can begin being built earlier through

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
inclusion. **Contextual execution** refers to how a parablock can begin being built earlier using the context provided by an unincluded segment of recent parablock ancestors. 
```

You might want to rework more of the surroundings to make this fit. Here's more detail on the unincluded segment for context:

Unincluded segment - From the perspective of a parachain block under construction, the unincluded segment describes a chain of recent block ancestors which have yet to be included on the relay chain. The ability to build new blocks on top of the unincluded segment rather than on top of blocks freshly included in the relay chain is the core of asynchronous backing.

Author: Got it - what stage are these block ancestors at, assuming they are backed by the subset of validator at this point? Also, does this affect finality at all, where it is unincluded segments being finalized in batches?

Reviewer 3: The unincluded segment lives in the runtime of the collator, so a candidate is added to the unincluded segment each time the parachain runtime executes a block. 

The relay chain has a more complex structure to track unincluded segments called `ProspectiveParachains`. This structure lives in the relay client, and candidates can only be placed there after at least one backer has cast a `valid` vote for them.

Now for finality. Relay chain finality doesn't care about unincluded segments since only included blocks can be finalized. Parachain finality piggy backs off of relay chain finality and thus doesn't care about unincluded segments either.

the context of future relay chain block(s).

Currently, parablocks rely on the most recent relay chain block (often referred to as the **parent**

> block, as the parablock anchors itself to it). This means that each parablock is limited to the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
block, as the parablock anchors itself to it). This means that each parablock must be generated and go through the entire backing process in the span of a single relay block. It then proceeds through availability + inclusion during the next block.
```

> window of the relay chain's block time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

:::info

It is important to note two following clarifications:

> 1. The parablock is itself within the relay chain, but rather the **paraheader**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. The parablock is not placed on the relay chain in its entirety, but rather the **paraheader**
```

2. The relay chain does not validate the entire state of a parachain, but only the state transitions
   within that block.

:::

For more information on the validity and availability process, be sure to visit the
[parachain protocol](../learn/learn-parachains-protocol.md) page.

## Synchronous Backing on Polkadot

With synchronous backing, there was only about a single relay chain block, or 6-second window, to

> complete the parablock inclusion process. This was tightly coupled to the relay chain's progress,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
complete the parablock generation and backing process. This was tightly coupled to the relay chain's progress,
```

where blocks had to be created within this window:

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 3: It takes 2 relay chain blocks to include a parablock. Not 1. A parablock candidate is backed on-chain in the first block. Then it is made available off chain and finally marked as included on-chain in the second block.

So four relay blocks should pass in this diagram rather than 2:
R1 -> parablock 1 backed
R2 -> parablock 1 included
R3 -> parablock 2 backed
R4 -> parablock 2 included

checkout "Relay Chain"
merge "Parachain 1, Block 1" tag:"P1 Included" id:"R2"
checkout "Parachain 1, Block 2"
commit id:"Block 2 (Candidate)"
commit id:"Block 2 (Backed)"
checkout "Parachain 1, Block 2"
commit id:"Block 2 (Included)"
checkout "Relay Chain"
merge "Parachain 1, Block 2" tag:"P2 Included" id:"R3"
```

where **P1** and **P2** are two parablocks, and **R1** and **R2** are two relay-chain blocks. The
letters within the parentheses represent the state of a parachain block. Hence **C** (candidate,
created by collators), **B** (backed, by para-validators), and **I** (included, by block authors in
the relay-chain). For more information about parablock validation see the
[parachain protocol page](./learn-parachains-protocol.md).

In the diagram there are three relay-chain blocks being finalized (**R1-2**) and a parachain
(**Parachain 1**) proposing two parablocks (**P1** and **P2**). Each parablock's lifecycle, from
being candidate (**P(C)**) to being backed and included (**P(B)** and **P(I)**, respectively), must
fit within the relay-chain block lifetime.

Thus, the main limitation of synchronous backing is that parablock validation is tightly coupled to

> the relay chain's progression on a 1-1 basis, meaning every parablock must be built, backed, and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the relay chain's progression on a 1-1 basis, meaning every parablock must be generated and backed
```

> included within six seconds. Parablocks depend on being in sync with the relay chain, reducing the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
within six seconds. This time limit reduces the
```

> amount of data in the block.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
amount of data a collator has time to add to each block.
```

> Essentially, a parablock is rushing to being validated by the relay-chain due to this synchrony.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Essentially, a parablock is rushing to being backed by the relay-chain due to this synchrony.
```

> By making this process of backing parablocks more asynchronous, parachains get the chance to not

Reviewer 3: The point about including more data in each parablock was covered sufficiently only a few lines earlier IMO. Instead I'd dive deeper into how Async Backing allows us to retry the availability process.

Here's a short description: Previously a parablock produced with relay parent `N` would only be valid for backing at relay block `N + 1` and for inclusion at relay block `N + 2`. 

With asynchronous backing there is a configuration `max_ancestry_len` which determines how long a parablock remains usable for. For instance, with `max_ancestry_len = 6` a parablock with relay parent `N` could be backed at `N + 6` at the latest and included at `N + 7`. This gives us room for 5 potential availability retries!

Author: This definitely warrants a diagram to best showcase this I'm thinking

Reviewer 3: A good thought. I haven't made a diagram for this either. By the way, here's a link to the visuals I created for my async backing PBA presentation. Rob was in attendance and didn't spotlight any errors, so I think these are pretty good to use. Feel free to make use of them! [link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AQNKRV1C26aJfQFRscrWt_cvIiRdXQu26SWP0B7Y80Y/edit?usp=sharing)

only include more data within each parablock, but also retry to include parablocks that failed
inclusion.

## Asynchronous Backing on Polkadot

> With asynchronous backing, the window is more than the span of around two blocks, or a ~12-second

Reviewer 3: The window of time for producing parablock candidates is actually customizable based on an Async Backing configuration called `max_depth`. In practice this time will likely fall somewhere between 6 and 18 seconds.

> window. This enables more computational and storage time per block, as the context of the next relay

Reviewer 3: We aren't getting our execution context from the next relay block. It comes from the unincluded segment, which is a chain of recent ancestor parablocks. As the name suggests, these parablocks have yet to be included in a relay block.

chain block can kickstart the process of validating next parablock.

> Notice that blocks can contain more state transitions compared to synchronous backing, meaning more

Reviewer 3: Repetition isn't necessarily bad, but we've covered this point several times by this depth in the article.

transactions per block. These blocks can be prepared in anticipation of being included later rather
than keeping in sync with the relay chain's progress 1-1:

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 3: Parachain blocks are backed on-chain in relay chain blocks. So for instance `Block 1 Backed` should align completely with `R2`.

`Block 1` doesn't necessarily need to be backed already to start building `Block 2` on it.

There's some unnecessary double labeling going on. You don't need to label `Block 1 Backed` both on the `Relay Chain` horizontal and on the `Block 1` horizontal for instance. Also, the fact that these labels/dots for the same event aren't vertically aligned is deeply confusing to those who don't already know the protocol.

Author: I will remove this diagram until the text is fully accurate.  This way, we can choose to use something like this or maybe use the graphics you have created for PBA :)

---
id: learn-async
title: Asynchronous Backing
sidebar_label: Asynchronous Backing

> description: A brief overview of asynchronous backing, and how it affects Polkadot's scalability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How Asynchronous Backing improves Polkadot's Scalability.
```

> keywords: [parachains, slots, backing, parablock]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
keywords: [parachains, slots, backing, parablock, asynchronous backing]
```

slug: ../learn-async
---

Asynchronous backing is a mechanism that introduces a _pipeline_ for parachain **<->** relay chain

> communication. This pipeline will allow collators to include more data in parachain blocks while

Reviewer: ```suggestion
communication. This pipeline will allow collators to include more data in parachain blocks (parablocks) while
```

reducing latency (from 12 to 6 seconds for parablock validation).

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: The diagram is really cool but I do not undrstand it. It would be helpful to have a detailed description of what is going on, with definitions for each term within the figure. Think about that the reader must be able to fully understand the diagram just by looking at it and readign the figure description.

What are the key messages in the figure? Where is the improvemnt from the previous situation? How the current situation looks like?

Author: I will work on making it less ambiguous + add the "before", then explain why 👍

Author: Addressed

%%{init: { 'logLevel': 'debug', 'theme': 'neutral', 'gitGraph': {'showBranches': true, 'showCommitLabel':true,'mainBranchName': 'Relay Chain'}} }%%
      gitGraph
        commit id:"R1"
        branch Parachain_1 order: 2
        commit id:"P1(C)"
        commit id:"P1(B)"
        branch Parachain_2 order: 3
        checkout "Relay Chain"
        merge Parachain_1 tag:"Parablock Backed" type:HIGHLIGHT
        commit id:"R2"
        checkout Parachain_2
        commit id:"P2(C)"
        commit id:"P2(B)"
        checkout "Relay Chain"
        merge Parachain_2 tag:"Parablock Backed" type:HIGHLIGHT
        checkout Parachain_1
        commit id:"P1(I)"
        checkout "Relay Chain"
        merge Parachain_1 tag:"Parablock Included" id:"R3"
        commit id:"R4"
        checkout Parachain_2
        commit id:"P2(I)"
        checkout "Relay Chain"
        merge Parachain_2 tag:"Parablock Included" id:"R5"
```

It has three overarching goals:

1. Decrease parablock validation time to **6 seconds** from **12 seconds**
2. Increase the amount of usable blockspace by a factor of 5-10, meaning more state changes are

>    allowed per block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   allowed per Realy-Chain block.
```

> 3. Allow for parachain blocks (parablocks) to be re-proposed to the network if they should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Allow for parablocks to be re-proposed to the network if they should be
```

   included initially on the first attempt.

> Asynchronous backing works by providing a form of **contextual execution**, which allows for more

Reviewer: What does "contextual execution" means exactly? How would you explain this term in your own words?

Author: Defined

> time for parachain collators to fit more transactions and ready block candidates for backing and
> inclusion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time for parachain collators to fit more transactions and make block candidates ready for the [inclusion pipeline](./learn-parachains-protocol#inclusion-pipeline).
```

_Notice that blocks can be prepared for longer, meaning more transactions per block. Due to the
asynchrony, these blocks can be prepared in anticipation of being included later rather than keeping
in sync with the relay chain's progress 1-1_

:::info How does this compare to Ethereum's Danksharding?

Asynchronous backing is the Polkadot equivalent to Ethereum's Danksharding. Where Ethereum merely
increases the amount of space per block for rollup-related solutions, asynchronous backing provides
a way for collators to build blocks with the intent of publishing asynchronously them later on.

Where Ethereum is looking to increase the size of each block as a means for rollup solutions,
asynchronous backing builds on the existing parachains protocol to provide a way to further
parallelize the processing of parachain blocks, increasing scalability and throughput in a single
go.

:::

This combination of lower latency, higher storage per block, and a logical pipeline spanning
Polkadot's networking, runtime, and collator aspects will allow for higher, more robust throughput.

> The speed is doubled while block storage is significantly increased, allowing the network to become
> increasingly more scalable and robust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Is this being removed because it is extraneous info?

Reviewer: I removed because it seemed to me that in the previous sentence you are saying similar things

> ## What was wrong with the previous architecture?

Reviewer: I would put this at the top of the page. It is always good to start with the current situation, create context and explain how it is good (how well has served Polkadot until now), and how it can be improved (what the problems are). It would be nice to have a diagram to compare with the new async backing.

Author: Done

A current limitation to scaling throughput in terms of speed is that parablock validation is tightly

> coupled to the relay chain's progression on a 1-1 basis. Parablocks depend very much on being in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coupled to the relay chain's progression on a 1-1 basis. Parablocks depend on being in
```

sync with the relay chain, which reduces the amount of data that can be put into the block.
Essentially, it's rushing to be a part of the relay chain due to this synchrony.

By making this process of backing para blocks more asynchronous, they get the chance to not only
include more data, but also "retry" later to be included in the relay chain.

## Learn More

> This topic is evolving and being implemented at the moment, keep up to date using the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic is evolving and being implemented, for more information see the following
```
